README.md, before:

# WG Casting App

A mobile-first web application for shared flats (WG) to organize casting interviews for new tenants. Now with **multi-user collaboration** and **real-time vote synchronization**!

## Features

### 🔐 Multi-User Login System
- **Username-based authentication** with unique validation
- **Conflict detection** with modal notifications for duplicate names
- **Real-time user management** across multiple participants
- **Secure session handling** with logout functionality

### 🗓️ Availability Calendar
- **When2meet-style interface** with monthly view
- Days on X-axis, hours (10:00–22:00) on Y-axis
- **Fixed slot selection** - reliable mouse and touch interaction
- **Single-click toggle** or **drag selection** for multi-hour blocks
- **Multi-user heatmap** showing overlapping availabilities from all participants
- **Real-time synchronization** with server-side persistence
- Double-click time slots to add notes

### 👥 Candidate Management
- Create, edit, and delete candidate profiles
- Add descriptions and portfolio links
- Smart time slot recommendations based on availability
- One-click candidate assignment to time slots
- Track scheduling status

### 📝 Notes System
- Add timestamped notes to any time slot
- Add notes to candidate profiles
- Visual indicators show when notes exist
- User tracking for multi-user scenarios

### 💾 Server-Side Data Persistence
- **Express.js backend** with REST API endpoints
- **JSON file storage** for vote persistence
- **Real-time synchronization** across all users
- **Automatic conflict resolution** for overlapping edits
- **Multi-user session management**
- **API endpoints**: `/api/votes`, `/api/usernames`

### 📱 Mobile-First Design
- Fully responsive and touch-friendly interface
- Tab navigation between Calendar and Candidates
- Large tap targets for mobile use
- Optimized for touch interactions and gestures

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (version 14 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone or download this project
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd wg-casting-app
   ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. Start both backend and frontend (recommended):
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Or start them separately:
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Start backend server
   npm run server
   
   # Terminal 2: Start frontend
   npm start
   ```
5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser
6. Enter a unique username to begin selecting availability

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

## How to Use

### Getting Started
1. **Enter your name** on the login screen
2. Choose a **unique username** (you'll get a warning if it's taken)
3. Click **Continue** to access the application

### Setting Up Availability
1. Go to the **Calendar** tab
2. Select a date from the month view
3. **Click once** to toggle individual time slots OR **drag** to select multiple hours
4. Green blocks show your availability
5. **Blue numbers** show how many people are available at that time (heatmap)
6. Double-click any time slot to add notes (e.g., "phone only")
7. Your votes are **automatically saved** to the server

### Managing Candidates
1. Go to the **Candidates** tab
2. Click **"+ Add Candidate"** to create a new candidate
3. Fill in name, description, and optional portfolio link
4. Save the candidate
5. Use the **"Notes"** button to add private notes about candidates
6. Click on recommended time slots to assign candidates to specific times

### Best Practices
- Mark your availability as soon as possible
- Use notes to specify preferences (e.g., "video call preferred")
- Check the heatmap to find times when most people are available
- Add detailed candidate notes to remember key points from applications

## Technical Details

### Built With

**Frontend:**
- **React** 18+ with TypeScript
- **TailwindCSS** for styling  
- Mobile-first responsive design
- Real-time state management

**Backend:**
- **Express.js** server
- **CORS** for cross-origin requests
- **JSON file storage** (server/votes.json)
- RESTful API design

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── AvailabilityCalendar.tsx  # Main calendar interface
│   ├── CandidateList.tsx         # Candidate management
│   └── NotesModal.tsx            # Notes functionality
├── context/
│   └── DataContext.tsx           # State management & localStorage
├── types/
│   └── index.ts                  # TypeScript type definitions
└── App.tsx                       # Main app component
```

### Data Structure
```typescript
interface AvailabilitySlot {
  id: string;
  userId: string;
  day: string;        // YYYY-MM-DD
  startHour: number;  // 10-22
  endHour: number;    // 10-22
}

interface Candidate {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  description: string;
  link?: string;
  assignedSlotId?: string;
  notes?: CandidateNote[];
}
```

### API Endpoints

The backend server (port 3001) provides the following REST API endpoints:

```
GET /api/votes
→ Returns all availability votes from all users
→ Response: [{ username: "alice", day: "2025-09-05", start: "10:00", end: "12:00" }, ...]

POST /api/votes
→ Submit availability votes for a username
→ Body: { username: "alice", votes: [{ day: "2025-09-05", start: "10:00", end: "12:00" }] }
→ Response: { success: true, message: "Votes saved successfully" }

GET /api/usernames
→ Returns list of all usernames that have submitted votes
→ Response: ["alice", "bob", "charlie"]

GET /health
→ Health check endpoint
→ Response: { status: "OK", timestamp: "2025-09-05T15:30:00.000Z" }
```

### Data Storage

Votes are stored in `server/votes.json` in the following format:
```json
[
  { "username": "alice", "day": "2025-09-05", "start": "10:00", "end": "12:00" },
  { "username": "bob", "day": "2025-09-05", "start": "11:00", "end": "13:00" },
  { "username": "alice", "day": "2025-09-06", "start": "14:00", "end": "16:00" }
]
```

## Deployment & Hosting (Oracle Cloud, Ubuntu, Docker)

### 1. Voraussetzungen
- Ubuntu-Server (z.B. Oracle Cloud Free Tier)
- Domain (optional, für HTTPS/SSL)
- Docker & Docker Compose installiert

### 2. Firewall & Ports
- Öffne in der Oracle Cloud Console die Ports 80 (HTTP) und 3001 (Backend-API) in der Security List.
- Öffne die Ports auf dem Server:
  ```sh
  sudo ufw allow 80
  sudo ufw allow 3001
  ```

### 3. Reverse Proxy (nginx)
- Die App nutzt einen eigenen nginx-Service als Reverse Proxy (siehe `docker-compose.yml`).
- Alle Anfragen an Port 80 werden an das Frontend oder an das Backend (`/api`) weitergeleitet.
- Passe ggf. die Datei `nginx.conf` an deine Domain an.

### 4. Domain & DNS
- Lege einen A-Record für deine Domain an, der auf die öffentliche IP deines Servers zeigt.

### 5. HTTPS/SSL (Let's Encrypt)
- Empfohlen: Richte ein SSL-Zertifikat mit [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) ein.
- Beispiel für SSL in `nginx.conf` (siehe Projektordner für Vorlage):
  - Zertifikate werden mit certbot erzeugt und in `/etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain/` abgelegt.
- Nginx übernimmt die HTTPS-Terminierung und leitet Anfragen intern weiter.

### 6. Docker-Volumes & Datenpersistenz
- Die Votes, Kandidaten usw. werden im Volume `./server/data:/app/server/data` gespeichert.
- **Backup-Empfehlung:** Sichere regelmäßig das Verzeichnis `server/data`.

### 7. Umgebungsvariablen
- Passe Umgebungsvariablen in der `docker-compose.yml` an (z.B. `NODE_ENV=production`).
- Für weitere Variablen kannst du eine `.env`-Datei nutzen.

### 8. Deployment
1. Projekt auf den Server kopieren (`scp` oder Git).
2. Im Projektordner:
   ```sh
   docker compose up -d --build
   ```
3. Die App ist jetzt unter `http://<deine-domain>` erreichbar.

### 9. Sicherheit
- Deaktiviere nicht benötigte Ports in der Compose-Datei und auf dem Server.
- Halte das System und Docker aktuell (`sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade`).
- Optional: HTTP Basic Auth für das Backend in nginx aktivieren (siehe Beispiel in `nginx.conf`).

### 10. Updates
- Für Updates: Code aktualisieren, dann erneut ausführen:
  ```sh
  docker compose up -d --build
  ```

---

**Tipp:**
- Für SSL/Let's Encrypt siehe Beispiel in `nginx.conf` und [Certbot-Dokumentation](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions).
- Für Backups: Nutze z.B. `rsync` oder einen Cloud-Backup-Service für das Verzeichnis `server/data`.

## Future Enhancements

- Multi-user real-time collaboration
- Email notifications and calendar integration
- Candidate ranking and voting system
- Export functionality for schedules
- Backend integration for data sharing
- Video call integration

## Contributing

1. Fork the project
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly on mobile devices
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

Commit message:

implemented jsonbin.io as remote storage

README.md, after:

# WG Casting App

A mobile-first web application for shared flats (WG) to organize casting interviews for new tenants. Now with **multi-user collaboration** and **real-time vote synchronization**!

## Features

### 🔐 Multi-User Login System
- **Username-based authentication** with unique validation
- **Conflict detection** with modal notifications for duplicate names
- **Real-time user management** across multiple participants
- **Secure session handling** with logout functionality

### 🗓️ Availability Calendar
- **When2meet-style interface** with monthly view
- Days on X-axis, hours (10:00–22:00) on Y-axis
- **Fixed slot selection** - reliable mouse and touch interaction
- **Single-click toggle** or **drag selection** for multi-hour blocks
- **Multi-user heatmap** showing overlapping availabilities from all participants
- **Real-time synchronization** with server-side persistence
- Double-click time slots to add notes

### 👥 Candidate Management
- Create, edit, and delete candidate profiles
- Add descriptions and portfolio links
- Smart time slot recommendations based on availability
- One-click candidate assignment to time slots
- Track scheduling status

### 📝 Notes System
- Add timestamped notes to any time slot
- Add notes to candidate profiles
- Visual indicators show when notes exist
- User tracking for multi-user scenarios

### 💾 Server-Side Data Persistence
- **Express.js backend** with REST API endpoints
- **JSONBin.io cloud storage** for data persistence
- **Real-time synchronization** across all users
- **Automatic conflict resolution** for overlapping edits
- **Multi-user session management**
- **API endpoints**: `/api/votes`, `/api/usernames`, `/api/candidates`, `/api/slotNotes`, `/api/appointments`

### 📱 Mobile-First Design
- Fully responsive and touch-friendly interface
- Tab navigation between Calendar and Candidates
- Large tap targets for mobile use
- Optimized for touch interactions and gestures

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (version 14 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone or download this project
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd wg-casting-app
   ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. Set up JSONBin.io:
   - Sign up for a free account at [JSONBin.io](https://jsonbin.io/)
   - Create a new API key in your account settings
   - Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env` in the server directory:
     ```bash
     cp server/.env.example server/.env
     ```
   - Edit the `.env` file and add your JSONBin.io API key:
     ```
     JSONBIN_API_KEY=your_jsonbin_api_key_here
     ```
   - The bin ID will be created automatically on first run and displayed in the console
5. Start both backend and frontend (recommended):
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Or start them separately:
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Start backend server
   npm run server
   
   # Terminal 2: Start frontend
   npm start
   ```
6. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser
7. Enter a unique username to begin selecting availability

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

## How to Use

### Getting Started
1. **Enter your name** on the login screen
2. Choose a **unique username** (you'll get a warning if it's taken)
3. Click **Continue** to access the application

### Setting Up Availability
1. Go to the **Calendar** tab
2. Select a date from the month view
3. **Click once** to toggle individual time slots OR **drag** to select multiple hours
4. Green blocks show your availability
5. **Blue numbers** show how many people are available at that time (heatmap)
6. Double-click any time slot to add notes (e.g., "phone only")
7. Your votes are **automatically saved** to the server

### Managing Candidates
1. Go to the **Candidates** tab
2. Click **"+ Add Candidate"** to create a new candidate
3. Fill in name, description, and optional portfolio link
4. Save the candidate
5. Use the **"Notes"** button to add private notes about candidates
6. Click on recommended time slots to assign candidates to specific times

### Best Practices
- Mark your availability as soon as possible
- Use notes to specify preferences (e.g., "video call preferred")
- Check the heatmap to find times when most people are available
- Add detailed candidate notes to remember key points from applications

## Technical Details

### Built With

**Frontend:**
- **React** 18+ with TypeScript
- **TailwindCSS** for styling  
- Mobile-first responsive design
- Real-time state management

**Backend:**
- **Express.js** server
- **CORS** for cross-origin requests
- **JSONBin.io cloud storage** (server/votes.json)
- RESTful API design

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── AvailabilityCalendar.tsx  # Main calendar interface
│   ├── CandidateList.tsx         # Candidate management
│   └── NotesModal.tsx            # Notes functionality
├── context/
│   └── DataContext.tsx           # State management & localStorage
├── types/
│   └── index.ts                  # TypeScript type definitions
└── App.tsx                       # Main app component
```

### Data Structure
```typescript
interface AvailabilitySlot {
  id: string;
  userId: string;
  day: string;        // YYYY-MM-DD
  startHour: number;  // 10-22
  endHour: number;    // 10-22
}

interface Candidate {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  description: string;
  link?: string;
  assignedSlotId?: string;
  notes?: CandidateNote[];
}
```

### API Endpoints

The backend server (port 3001) provides the following REST API endpoints:

```
GET /api/votes
→ Returns all availability votes from all users
→ Response: [{ username: "alice", day: "2025-09-05", start: "10:00", end: "12:00" }, ...]

POST /api/votes
→ Submit availability votes for a username
→ Body: { username: "alice", votes: [{ day: "2025-09-05", start: "10:00", end: "12:00" }] }
→ Response: { success: true, message: "Votes saved successfully" }

GET /api/usernames
→ Returns list of all usernames that have submitted votes
→ Response: ["alice", "bob", "charlie"]

GET /health
→ Health check endpoint
→ Response: { status: "OK", timestamp: "2025-09-05T15:30:00.000Z" }
```

### Data Storage

Votes are stored in `server/votes.json` in the following format:
```json
[
  { "username": "alice", "day": "2025-09-05", "start": "10:00", "end": "12:00" },
  { "username": "bob", "day": "2025-09-05", "start": "11:00", "end": "13:00" },
  { "username": "alice", "day": "2025-09-06", "start": "14:00", "end": "16:00" }
]
```

## Deployment & Hosting (Oracle Cloud, Ubuntu, Docker)

### 1. Voraussetzungen
- Ubuntu-Server (z.B. Oracle Cloud Free Tier)
- Domain (optional, für HTTPS/SSL)
- Docker & Docker Compose installiert

### 2. Firewall & Ports
- Öffne in der Oracle Cloud Console die Ports 80 (HTTP) und 3001 (Backend-API) in der Security List.
- Öffne die Ports auf dem Server:
  ```sh
  sudo ufw allow 80
  sudo ufw allow 3001
  ```

### 3. Reverse Proxy (nginx)
- Die App nutzt einen eigenen nginx-Service als Reverse Proxy (siehe `docker-compose.yml`).
- Alle Anfragen an Port 80 werden an das Frontend oder an das Backend (`/api`) weitergeleitet.
- Passe ggf. die Datei `nginx.conf` an deine Domain an.

### 4. Domain & DNS
- Lege einen A-Record für deine Domain an, der auf die öffentliche IP deines Servers zeigt.

### 5. HTTPS/SSL (Let's Encrypt)
- Empfohlen: Richte ein SSL-Zertifikat mit [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) ein.
- Beispiel für SSL in `nginx.conf` (siehe Projektordner für Vorlage):
  - Zertifikate werden mit certbot erzeugt und in `/etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain/` abgelegt.
- Nginx übernimmt die HTTPS-Terminierung und leitet Anfragen intern weiter.

### 6. Docker-Volumes & Datenpersistenz
- Die Votes, Kandidaten usw. werden im Volume `./server/data:/app/server/data` gespeichert.
- **Backup-Empfehlung:** Sichere regelmäßig das Verzeichnis `server/data`.

### 7. Umgebungsvariablen
- Passe Umgebungsvariablen in der `docker-compose.yml` an (z.B. `NODE_ENV=production`).
- Für weitere Variablen kannst du eine `.env`-Datei nutzen.

### 8. Deployment
1. Projekt auf den Server kopieren (`scp` oder Git).
2. Im Projektordner:
   ```sh
   docker compose up -d --build
   ```
3. Die App ist jetzt unter `http://<deine-domain>` erreichbar.

### 9. Sicherheit
- Deaktiviere nicht benötigte Ports in der Compose-Datei und auf dem Server.
- Halte das System und Docker aktuell (`sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade`).
- Optional: HTTP Basic Auth für das Backend in nginx aktivieren (siehe Beispiel in `nginx.conf`).

### 10. Updates
- Für Updates: Code aktualisieren, dann erneut ausführen:
  ```sh
  docker compose up -d --build
  ```

---

**Tipp:**
- Für SSL/Let's Encrypt siehe Beispiel in `nginx.conf` und [Certbot-Dokumentation](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions).
- Für Backups: Nutze z.B. `rsync` oder einen Cloud-Backup-Service für das Verzeichnis `server/data`.

## Future Enhancements

- Multi-user real-time collaboration
- Email notifications and calendar integration
- Candidate ranking and voting system
- Export functionality for schedules
- Backend integration for data sharing
- Video call integration

## Contributing

1. Fork the project
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly on mobile devices
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.
